NARRATOR:
Somewhere, hidden
amongst thorny brambles,
is a little kingdom
of elves and fairies.
Everyone who lives here
is very, very small.
I'm Ben Elf.
[BLOWS HORN]
[BARKING]
And I'm Princess Holly.
[WAND TINKLES]
[CHUCKLES]
Come on, let's play.
Wait for us.
[BOTH CHUCKLING]
[NARRATOR READS ONSCREEN TEXT]
[♪♪♪]
NARRATOR:
Today's adventure
starts at the little castle.
[HOLLY READS ONSCREEN TEXT]
[ALL MUNCHING]
Nanny Plum,
I'd like some bread
with my egg please.
I'm sorry, Your Majesty,
we haven't any bread
this morning.
No bread?
Then please magic some up.
I can't magic up bread
without flour,
and we've run out
of flour.
Well, can't we order
more flour from the elves?
I have. But as usual,
the Elf Truck is late.
[TRUCK HORN HONKS]
Nanny.
The Elf Truck's here, heh.
[TURNS OFF ENGINE]
Hi, Ben.
Hi, Holly.
Food delivery.
At last, Mr. Elf.
King Thistle is waiting
for his breakfast.
Well, today we've got
mushrooms, tomatoes,
baked beans
and of course, eggs.
That should make a splendid
King's breakfast.
Yes, yes, thank you,
Mr. Elf.
But the only thing
I need today is flour.
Flour?
Yes, flour.
For making bread.
The King wants bread.
No problem. We'll pick up
a bag of flour
from the Elf Windmill.
Thank you, Mr. Elf.
Let's see, we should be able
to deliver it next week.
Next week.
But I need flour today.
Ah, you know what they say,
"You can't rush
the Elf Windmill."
Hm. Maybe I should visit
this Elf Windmill.
Of course, Nanny Plum.
We can take you
if you like.
The windmill sounds fun.
Can I come too?
Of course. Hop aboard,
Princess Holly.
[CHUCKLING]
[♪♪♪]
There's the windmill.
[CREAKING]
HOLLY:
Wow.
[BEN & HOLLY CHUCKLING]
Hello, Ben.
Hello, Holly.
Hello,
Wise Old Elf.
Ah, Nanny Plum.
Hi there. Can I have
a bag of flour, please?
Certainly. We should have a bag
of flour ready in a week.
But I need it now.
Ho, ho.
You know what they say,
"You can't rush
the Elf Windmill."
Why not?
Ho, ho.
Don't you know
how a windmill makes flour?
Of course I do.
Um...
Wise Old Elf, can you show us
how it makes flour?
Of course I can.
Follow me.
[♪♪♪]
[MACHINE WHIRRING]
Now, can anyone tell me
what this is?
It's an elf.
Heh. No, no.
What is the elf holding?
It's wheat.
Very good, Ben.
And who knows
what we do with wheat
at the Elf Windmill?
I know. We take
the wheat and we--
One moment, Ben.
Let's give the fairies
a chance to tell us.
Um...
Is it for sweeping
the floor?
WISE OLD ELF:
Heh. No, no, no.
We use the wheat
to make the flour.
First we put the wheat
in this funnel.
The funnel separates out
the parts we need.
Come and see.
This way, everyone.
That doesn't
look like flour.
We haven't finished yet,
Princess Holly.
Look.
The wind turns the sails,
the sails turn the cogs.
And the cogs
turn the grindstone.
The grindstone crushes
the grains of wheat.
And out comes
top quality elf flour.
It's very slow.
That's why it takes a week
to make a bag of flour.
NANNY:
Why can't it go faster?
The mill goes at the speed
of the wind.
So if we could
make the wind go faster,
the mill would go
faster too?
Heh, yes, but we can't make
the wind go faster.
I can.
Oh. Now, I'm not sure
you should use magic.
Oh, stop fussing.
I'm always very careful
when it comes
to weather spells.
Nanny, can I do
the spell too?
No, Princess Holly,
you're much too young for
dangerous weather spells.
[GROANS]
But you can watch me
and see how it's done.
Blow wind, do your stuff
with all your might
puff, puff, puff
[♪♪♪]
[BEN AND HOLLY GASPS]
There.
What did I tell you?
Um, well...
The windmill's going faster
and faster.
You see, Wise Old Elf?
I know what I'm doing.
[THUNDER RUMBLING]
That sounded
like thunder.
Did you do that,
Nanny?
Me? No.
I didn't magic up thunder,
just wind.
[CREAKING]
Are you sure you haven't
made a storm, Nanny?
Yes. Well, wind,
storm, hurricane,
sometimes it's hard to tell
the difference.
Phew, we're making
so much flour,
we're running out of sacks.
[♪♪♪]
Nanny Plum, is this ghastly
weather your doing?
Oh, stop fussing.
It'll get better
in a moment.
It can't get any worse.
Aah!
Huh?
The mill's going crazy.
It's making
too much flour.
Run, run!
Run for your lives!
[ALL YELLING
AND SCREAMING]
BEN:
Look how fast
the sails are going.
Too fast.
The mill is
out of control.
It's filling up
with flour.
Isn't that
what it's supposed to do?
We have to slow
the mill down.
[SIGHS]
All right.
I'll just do some more magic
to stop the wind.
No, thank you, Nanny Plum.
We've had quite enough
of fairy magic.
Now it's time
for some elf skill.
What's your plan,
Wise Old Elf?
We simply lasso the sails
and stop the windmill.
Take hold of this rope,
elves.
ALL [IN UNISON]:
Right-o.
Are you sure
this is a good idea?
We know what we're doing.
Stand back, everyone.
He's got it.
Hooray!
Well done, Wise Old Elf.
Told you
it would work--
[ALL SCREAMING]
[ALL GASP]
I hope they're okay.
They don't look
very happy.
Elves are never happy.
[SCREAMING CONTINUES]
[♪♪♪]
Maybe you can stop
the spell now, Nanny Plum.
Aah!
What did he say?
Stop the wind!
Oh, okay.
All winds, away you go.
[ALL GRUNT AND GROAN]
Wise Old Elf,
are you all right?
Of course I'm all right.
I'm an elf.
[BLOWS AIR]
[KIDS GIGGLE]
I'll just get
my bag of flour.
Nanny Plum,
I strongly advise you
not to open that door.
Oh, stop fussing.
Aah!
[ALL GASP]
[COUGHING]
[HORN HONKS, ENGINE REVS]
HOLLY:
Ben, look.
There's your dad.
Uh, hi, Dad.
Hi, Ben.
Ah, Mr. Elf.
Could you deliver one bag
of flour for Nanny Plum?
She can have
a whole truckload.
I'll take it there
right away.
KIDS [IN UNISON]:
Hooray!
[COUGHING]
Thank you.
That would be most kind.
[♪♪♪]
NARRATOR:
Today's adventure
starts at the little castle.
[HOLLY READS ONSCREEN TEXT]
I'm afraid
I've got some bad news.
What's that, darling?
We've been invited
to visit
King and Queen Marigold
this evening.
Oh, dear.
King and Queen Marigold
are boring and snooty!
They always make me feel
like a country bumpkin.
So why are
we visiting them?
Because they invited us
and I didn't know
how to say "no"!
I'm good at
that sort of thing.
Leave it with me!
[PHONE RINGS]
Hello.
KING:
Queen Marigold?
King Thistle here.
I'm terribly sorry,
but Queen Thistle
and I can't come tonight.
Oh, no! We were so looking
forward to seeing you.
Yes, sorry about that.
But tonight,
we're going to, uh...
A music concert!
What kind of music?
Uh, um, elf music!
Elf music? Oh, I don't believe
I've heard of elf music.
Oh, uh, yes,
it's rather good, actually.
Oh! King Marigold and I
love good music.
Uh...
I know!
We'll come to you!
Oh.
See you tonight!
Toodle pip!
[SNORTS]
Everything all right,
darling?
There's good news
and bad news.
What's the good news?
We're not visiting
King and Queen Marigold.
ALL [IN UNISON]:
Hooray!
So, what's the bad news?
They're coming
to see us instead.
Oh, no!
And they're expecting
a concert
of elf music.
What?
And I've, uh, told them
that elf music sounds good.
Oh! But the Elf Band
sound terrible!
They're the only elf music
we've got!
They're an
embarrassment!
They don't sound
that bad.
The last time they played,
you said it was disgusting.
Well, maybe
they've got better?
Nanny!
Summon the Elf Band.
Yes, Your Majesty.
[♪♪♪]
[HORN HONKS]
[INSTRUMENTS CLATTERING]
[BELL DINGS]
The Elf Band at your service,
Your Majesty.
[PLAYING DISCORDANT NOTE]
Wise Old Elf,
we have some
very important guests
coming to visit.
King and Queen Marigold.
They are very boring
and snooty.
And they want to hear
some elf music.
Have you been practicing?
No, Your Majesty,
you told us to never,
ever play music again.
I see. Well, you can play
for us now.
Oh, it would be an honor,
Your Majesty!
One, two,
three, four!
BAND [IN UNISON]:
Oompah! Oompah! Oompah!
[BAND PLAYING OFF-KEY]
[SINGING INDISTINCTLY]
[SINGING GIBBERISH]
[BLOWS HORN]
[APPLAUSE]
Interesting.
That was awful!
I thought it was good.
You might like it, Holly,
but I'm sure King
and Queen Marigold will not.
If I might make a suggestion,
Your Majesty?
What is it, Nanny Plum?
Princess Holly could play her
recorder for the guests.
Yes! Nanny has been
teaching me!
And Holly has been
practicing.
[PLAYING A SIMPLE MELODY]
[ALL APPLAUDING]
Heh.
What a charming
little tune!
King and Queen Marigold
would like that!
There is one problem.
You've promised elf music,
and Holly is not an elf.
I could magic some elf ears
for Holly.
Ooh!
Heh.
No, thank you, Nanny!
I know! Nanny can teach
the Elf Band
how to play Holly's tune!
ALL [IN UNISON]:
Hooray!
That's that, sorted!
See you later!
Everybody on?
ALL [IN UNISON]:
Yes.
Right-o. Off we go!
[HORN HONKS]
Your instruments
don't just sound funny,
they look funny too.
They've got funny names
as well!
This is called
a Thrump Warbler.
[BLOWS HORN]
[LAUGHS]
That's
the Sparl Throttle.
[BLOWS HORN]
[BOTH LAUGH]
And this is
the Blotto horn!
[BLOWS HORN]
[BOTH CHUCKLING]
Delightful!
But they all sound silly!
Ah! That's because you don't
have sensitive elf hearing!
ALL [IN UNISON]:
Oompah! Oompah!
[BAND PLAYING OFF-KEY]
[ELVES SINGING INDISTINCTLY]
All right! All right!
Enough of that!
Princess Holly,
could you remind us
what your tune
sounded like, please.
[PLAYING A SIMPLE MELODY]
I don't suppose
you lot can read music?
Well, I haven't seen this
particular piece before.
[PLAYING]
You played that perfectly!
Perfect for you maybe,
but it's not elf music!
Elf music has
Oompah Oompah. Like this!
ELVES [IN UNISON]:
Oompah, oompah!
[BAND PLAYING OFF-KEY]
[ALL SINGING INDISTINCTLY]
Stop! Stop!
Just remember, you are playing
for King and Queen Marigold.
And they are very snooty.
We like Oompah music,
but King and Queen
Marigold don't.
Quite, so play
Holly's tune, please.
[BAND PLAYING]
Lovely!
[HORN HONKS]
Uh, Holly, do the Elf Band
sound any better?
Yes, Daddy! They've been
practicing all day!
Okay.
Let's hear them play.
[BAND PLAYING OFF-KEY]
BOTH [IN UNISON]:
Oh!
[BAND PLAYING]
That's much better!
Yes, it's charming.
But I still don't think
King and Queen Marigold
will like it.
Why, Mommy?
King and Queen Marigold
don't like country things.
And the instruments
sound so, uh, rough.
I can fix that!
How?
I'll just use magic
to make the instruments
sound more normal.
Play me a tune,
Mr. Elf!
[PLAYING]
[TUNE GROWS MORE REFINED]
Fantastic! That sounds
exactly the sort of music
King and Queen Marigold
would like!
Problem solved.
[BELL DINGS]
King and Queen Marigold!
How delightful to see
your little kingdom again,
Queen Thistle.
It's always
such a pleasure
to experience your simple
country life here.
We can't wait to hear
some genuine elf music.
[CHUCKLES, SNORTS]
Oh, yes, you must hear it!
Oh, King Thistle,
you didn't tell me
you were a conductor!
I take a special interest
in the sound of this band.
[BAND PLAYING REFINED TUNE]
I must say, this is not
at all what I expected
elf music to sound like!
They have been practicing
very hard.
These elves play well,
but the tune is
a little old-fashioned.
QUEEN MARIGOLD:
And their instruments
sound very ordinary.
I assumed elf music
would be more folksy.
What's that?
[BAND PLAYING ELF MUSIC]
Oh, I say!
What's that?
[GIBBERS]
[BLOWS HORN]
[BOTH GRUNT]
ALL [IN UNISON]:
Oompah! Oompah!
[ALL SINGING INDISTINCTLY]
A fantastic performance!
So exciting!
[GIBBERS]
A triumph,
King Thistle.
Have you ever considered
teaching music?
Ah, well, uh...
Let's dance, heh!
[ALL SINGING INDISTINCTLY]
[BAND PLAYING ELF MUSIC]
[CHUCKLES]
Come on, Mommy!
King and Queen Marigold
are not boring at all!
[ALL SINGING INDISTINCTLY]
[♪♪♪]
[HORN BLARES]